KEP-2400: Alpha node support for swap memory (#28838)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes.md

This is a change of behavior compared to abrupt node termination.
{{< /note >}}

## Swap memory management {#swap-memory}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.22" >}}

Prior to Kubernetes 1.22, nodes did not support the use of swap memory, and a

> kubelet would fail to start if swap was detected on a node by default. In 1.22
> onwards, swap memory support can be configured on a per-node basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubelet would by default fail to start if swap was detected on a node. In 1.22
onwards, swap memory support can be enabled on a per-node basis.
```

> To enable swap on a node, the `NodeSwap` feature flag must be set to true on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable swap on a node, the `NodeSwap` feature gate must be enabled on
```

the kubelet, and the `--fail-swap-on` command line flag or `failSwapOn`

> [configuration setting] must be set to false.
> 
> [configuration setting]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-KubeletConfiguration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[configuration setting](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-KubeletConfiguration)
must be set to false.
```

A user can also optionally configure `memorySwap.swapBehavior` in order to

> configure how the node will use swap memory. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specify how a node will use swap memory. For example,
```

Just avoid duplicated "configure" verbs.

```yaml
memorySwap:
  swapBehavior: LimitedSwap
```

> The available configuration options for `SwapBehavior` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available configuration options for `swapBehavior` are:
```

> - Unset: defaults to `LimitedSwap`

Reviewer: Maybe we want to remove this line or clarify what "Unset" means. Does it mean that the "swapBehavior" key is omitted or the "swapBehavior" is set to `null`, or both?

Author: Both.

Author: Moved this to a trailing paragraph.

- `LimitedSwap`: Kubernetes workloads are limited in how much swap they can
  use. Workloads on the node not managed by Kubernetes can still swap.
- `UnlimitedSwap`: Kubernetes workloads can use as much swap memory as they
  request, up to the system limit.

The behaviour of the `LimitedSwap` setting depends if the node is running with
v1 or v2 of control groups (also known as "cgroups"):

|           | `LimitedSwap`                                                                                          | `UnlimitedSwap`                                                             |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| cgroupsv1 | Kubernetes workloads can use any combination of memory and swap, up to the pod's memory limit, if set. | Kubernetes workloads can use unlimited swap memory, up to the system limit. |

> | cgroupsv2 | Kubernetes workloads cannot use swap memory.                                                           | Kubernetes workloads can use unlimited swap memory, up to the system limit. |

Reviewer: Please consider revise the table into a simple list:

- Markdown tables are very limited in terms of table formatting, e.g. you cannot break lines freely, you cannot embed lists in cells etc.
- The `UnlimitedSwap` behavior has been clarified above, so no need to repeat it here.

For more information, and to assist with testing and provide feedback, please

> see [KEP-2400] and its [design proposal].
> 
> [KEP-2400]: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2400
> [design proposal]: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md

Reviewer: Please try use inline links when possible. We have link error detection script that cannot handle the out-of-band flavor.

```suggestion
see [KEP-2400](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2400) and its
[design proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/2400-node-swap/README.md).
```
